Add lab 2.5 (#19)
acend/openshift-4-ops-training: content/en/docs/02/05_worker-nodes.md

sectionnumber: 2.5
---

We initially installed this cluster using only worker nodes.
We then successfully created infra nodes and moved all infrastructure components onto them.
Now, essentially the only real workload that's running on the 3 worker nodes is our uptime application.

> Without yet going into detail on how and where you can find dashboards and metrics for capacity monitoring, it's safe to say that one small Python app doesn't need 3 worker nodes with 8 CPU cores and 32 GB of memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without going into detail yet on how and where you can find dashboards and metrics for capacity monitoring, it's safe to say that one small Python app doesn't need 3 worker nodes with 8 CPU cores and 32 GB of memory.
```

> So what we are going to do next is reduce the number of worker nodes to 2 and reduce their size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So we are going to decrease the number of worker nodes to 2 and also reduce their size.
```

> We admit that in real life, this would probably be the other way round.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have to admit that in real life, this would probably be the other way round.
```

Instead of reducing the number of nodes and their capacity, we would add more nodes and maybe even make them bigger.
However, be it reducing or enlarging the cluster, the process is the same and the forecast for this training tells us that we're not going to see much more workload.

## Task {{% param sectionnumber %}}.1: Change the number of nodes

Changing the number of nodes can be either done via CLI or in the web console.

### Change the number of nodes in the web console

* Make sure you're in the Administrator view (see the dropdown menu top left)
* In the menu on the left, choose Compute and then MachineSets
* Click the 3-dot button on the right next to the worker machineset:

![machineset](machineset.png)

* Choose to edit Machine count
* Reduce the number of machines to 2 and click Save

> If you now switch to the Nodes or Machines overview in the menu on the left, you can see that OpenShift already began the deprovisioning process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you now switch to the Nodes or Machines overview in the menu on the left, you can see that OpenShift already started the deprovisioning process.
```
